README.md, before:

# Upscale

A local image upscaler using Replicate. Upscale images using a high-resolution controlnet model:

[https://replicate.com/batouresearch/high-resolution-controlnet-tile](replicate.com/batouresearch/high-resolution-controlnet-tile)

## Prerequisites

1. Make a [Replicate](https://replicate.com) account and set [your token](https://replicate.com/account/api-tokens):

   ```sh
   export REPLICATE_API_TOKEN=<token>
   ```

## Usage

1. Install the required packages from `requirements.txt` using pip:

   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. Run the script `main.py` with the required arguments. Here is an example:

   ```sh
   python main.py path_to_your_image.png
   ```

   This will upscale the image at the specified path using the default parameters.

You can also specify additional parameters such as `steps`, `strength`, `scheduler`, `guess_mode`, `resolution`, `guidance_scale`, `condition_scale`, `negative_prompt`, and `prompt`. For example:

```sh
python main.py path_to_your_image.png --steps 30 --strength 0.5
```

This will upscale the image with 30 steps and a strength of 0.5.

The upscaled image will be saved in the same directory as the original image with `-upscaled` appended to the original file name.

## Options

Option|Type|Default|Description|
---|---|---|---|
`image_path`|str|None|The path to the image to upscale|
`steps`|int|60|Number of inference steps|
`strength`|float|0.45|Denoising strength. 1 means total destruction of the original image|
`scheduler`|str|"K_EULER"|Scheduler type. Choices: "DDIM", "DPMSolverMultistep", "K_EULER_ANCESTRAL", "K_EULER"|
`guess_mode`|bool|True|In this mode, the ControlNet encoder will try best to recognize the content of the input image even if you remove all prompts. The `guidance_scale` between 3.0 and 5.0 is recommended|
`resolution`|int|2048|Resolution. Choices: 2048, 2560, 3072, 4096|
`guidance_scale`|int|4|Scale for classifier-free guidance|
`condition_scale`|int|1|Conditioning scale for controlnet|
`negative_prompt`|str|"ugly, broken, deformed, distorted"|Negative prompt for the upscaling process|
`prompt`|str|" "|Describe the image to improve upscale, can increase hallucination|
`output_file_path`|str|None|The path where the upscaled image will be saved. If not specified, the upscaled image will be saved in the same directory as the original image with `-upscaled` appended to the original file name|

Commit message:

Rename main to upscale
Add instructions on adding to PATH

README.md, after:

# Upscale

A local image upscaler using Replicate. Upscale images using a high-resolution controlnet model:

[https://replicate.com/batouresearch/high-resolution-controlnet-tile](replicate.com/batouresearch/high-resolution-controlnet-tile)

## Prerequisites

1. Make a [Replicate](https://replicate.com) account and set [your token](https://replicate.com/account/api-tokens):

   ```sh
   export REPLICATE_API_TOKEN=<token>
   ```

## Usage

1. Install the required packages from `requirements.txt` using pip:

   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. Make the script `upscale` executable:

   ```sh
   chmod u+x upscale
   ```

3. You can run the script directly using the following command:

   ```sh
   ./upscale path_to_your_image.png
   ```

   This will upscale the image at the specified path using the default parameters.

4. Optionally, you can add the script to your PATH to run it from anywhere. To make this change persistent across sessions, add the export command to your shell's configuration file (e.g., `~/.bashrc` or `~/.bash_profile` for bash, `~/.zshrc` for zsh):

   ```sh
   echo 'export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/script/directory' >> ~/.bashrc
   ```

   Then, source your shell's configuration file to apply the change immediately:

   ```sh
   source ~/.bashrc
   ```

You can also specify additional parameters such as `steps`, `strength`, `scheduler`, `guess_mode`, `resolution`, `guidance_scale`, `condition_scale`, `negative_prompt`, and `prompt`. For example:

```sh
./upscale path_to_your_image.png --steps 30 --strength 0.5
```

This will upscale the image with 30 steps and a strength of 0.5.

The upscaled image will be saved in the same directory as the original image with `-upscaled` appended to the original file name.

## Options

Option|Type|Default|Description|
---|---|---|---|
`image_path`|str|None|The path to the image to upscale|
`steps`|int|60|Number of inference steps|
`strength`|float|0.45|Denoising strength. 1 means total destruction of the original image|
`scheduler`|str|"K_EULER"|Scheduler type. Choices: "DDIM", "DPMSolverMultistep", "K_EULER_ANCESTRAL", "K_EULER"|
`guess_mode`|bool|True|In this mode, the ControlNet encoder will try best to recognize the content of the input image even if you remove all prompts. The `guidance_scale` between 3.0 and 5.0 is recommended|
`resolution`|int|2048|Resolution. Choices: 2048, 2560, 3072, 4096|
`guidance_scale`|int|4|Scale for classifier-free guidance|
`condition_scale`|int|1|Conditioning scale for controlnet|
`negative_prompt`|str|"ugly, broken, deformed, distorted"|Negative prompt for the upscaling process|
`prompt`|str|" "|Describe the image to improve upscale, can increase hallucination|
`output_file_path`|str|None|The path where the upscaled image will be saved. If not specified, the upscaled image will be saved in the same directory as the original image with `-upscaled` appended to the original file name|
